# Lite iree/ssd_mobilenet_v2_fpn_100/uint8/default/1

A deployment format of iree/ssd_mobilenet_v2_fpn_100/uint8

<!-- parent-model: iree/ssd_mobilenet_v2_fpn_100/uint8 -->
<!-- asset-path: https://storage.googleapis.com/tfhub-lite-models/iree/lite-model/ssd_mobilenet_v2_fpn_100/uint8/default/1.tflite -->

## Overview
Mobilenet V2 with FPNLite head trained on COCO 2017, in `uint8`. Works with dynamic width and height. Achieves 20.6% mAP
on COCO 2017 at 320x320 input.

### Input
*   `normalized_input_image_tensor`: an `uint8` array of shape `[batch, height,
    width, channels]` where `batch = 1`, `channels = 3`, and `height` and `width` can be any size. Values should be between `[0, 255]`.

### Output
Outputs are the activations from the box predictors at each feature map in `uint8` and are of the form:
* Box predictor: `[batch, height, width, box_encoding * num_anchors]`, where `batch=1`, `height` and `width` vary depending on the size of the feature map, `box_encoding` are the box coordinates at [`y_center`, `x_center`, `box_height`, `box_width`] and `num_anchors` is the number of anchors as defined in the anchor configuration.
* Class predictor: `[batch, height, width, num_classes * num_anchors]`, where `batch=1`, `height` and `width` vary depending on the size of the feature map, `num_classes` is 91 (including background class), `num_anchors` is the number of anchors as defined in the anchor configuration.

## Artifacts
Artifacts included:
* `tflite_graph.pb`: the frozen Tensorflow graph.
* `ssd_mobilenet_v2_fpnlite_uint8.tflite`: the converted TFLite file with raw outputs.
* `anchors.pb`: the anchor file in proto binary format.
* `anchors.pbtxt`: the anchor file in proto text format.
