# Module google/movenet/singlepose/lightning/2

A convolutional neural network model that runs on RGB images and predicts human
joint locations of a single person. The model is designed to be run in the
browser using Tensorflow.js or on devices using TF Lite in real-time, targeting
movement/fitness activities. This variant: MoveNet.SinglePose.Lightning is a
lower capacity model (compared to MoveNet.SinglePose.Thunder) that can run
>50FPS on most modern laptops while achieving good performance.

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- task: image-pose-detection -->
<!-- fine-tunable: false -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- network-architecture: mobilenet-v2 -->

## Model Specifications

The following sessions describe the general model information. Please see the
[model card](https://storage.googleapis.com/movenet/MoveNet.SinglePose%20Model%20Card.pdf)
for more detailed information and quantitative analysis.

### Model Architecture

[MobileNetV2](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04381) image feature extractor with
[Feature Pyramid Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03144) decoder (to stride
of 4) followed by [CenterNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.07850) prediction heads
with custom post-processing logics. Lightning uses depth multiplier 1.0.

### Inputs

A frame of video or an image, represented as an int32 tensor of shape:
192x192x3. Channels order: RGB with values in [0, 255].

### Outputs

A float32 tensor of shape [1, 1, 17, 3].

*   The first two channels of the last dimension represents the yx coordinates
    (normalized to image frame, i.e. range in [0.0, 1.0]) of the 17 keypoints
    (in the order of: *[nose, left eye, right eye, left ear, right ear, left
    shoulder, right shoulder, left elbow, right elbow, left wrist, right wrist,
    left hip, right hip, left knee, right knee, left ankle, right ankle]*).

*   The third channel of the last dimension represents the prediction confidence
    scores of each keypoint, also in the range [0.0, 1.0].

### Usage

The following code snippet shows how to load and run the model inference on an
input image in Python. In a video setting, it is recommended to use the detected
keypoints from the previous frame to determine a crop region that surrounds the
target person to achieve higher detection quality.

```python
# Import TF and TF Hub libraries.
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

# Load the input image.
image_path = 'PATH_TO_YOUR_IMAGE'
image = tf.io.read_file(image_path)
image = tf.compat.v1.image.decode_jpeg(image)
image = tf.expand_dims(image, axis=0)
# Resize and pad the image to keep the aspect ratio and fit the expected size.
image = tf.cast(tf.image.resize_with_pad(image, 192, 192), dtype=tf.int32)

# Download the model from TF Hub.
model = hub.load("https://tfhub.dev/google/movenet/singlepose/lightning/2")
movenet = model.signatures['serving_default']

# Run model inference.
outputs = movenet(image)
# Output is a [1, 1, 17, 3] tensor.
keypoints = outputs['output_0']
```

## Intended Use

### Primary Intended Uses

*   Optimized to be run in the browser environment using Tensorflow.js with
    WebGL support or on-device with TF Lite.
*   Tuned to be robust on **detecting fitness/fast movement with difficult poses
    and/or motion blur**.
*   Most suitable for detecting the pose of a single person who is **3ft ~ 6ft**
    away from a device’s webcam that captures the video stream.
*   Focus on detecting the pose of the person who is closest to the image center
    and ignore the other people who are in the image frame (i.e. background
    people rejection).
*   The model predicts **17 human keypoints** of the full body even when they
    are occluded. For the keypoints which are outside of the image frame, the
    model will emit low confidence scores. A confidence threshold (recommended
    default: 0.3) can be used to filter out unconfident predictions.

### Primary Intended Users

*   People who build applications (e.g. fitness/physical movement, AR
    entertainment) that require very **fast inference** and **good quality
    single-person pose detection** (with background people rejection) on
    **standard consumer devices** (e.g. laptops, tablets, cell phones).

### Out-of-scope Use Cases

*   This model is not intended for detecting poses of multiple people in the
    image.
*   Any form of surveillance or identity recognition is explicitly out of scope
    and not enabled by this technology.
*   The model does not store/use/send any information in the input images at
    inference time.

## License

This model follows [*Apache 2.0*](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
If you intend to use it beyond permissible usage, please consult with the model
owners ahead of time.

## Changelog

### Version 2
*   Improved pose prediction accuracy.
*   Updated the feature extractor's upsampling ops such that the model is WASM compatible.

### Version 1
Initial release.
