# Module google/edgetpu/nlp/mobilebert-edgetpu/s/1

MobileBert-EdgeTPU is a set of language pretraining models that are optimized
for Pixel 6.

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- task: text-classification -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- dataset: wikipedia-and-bookscorpus -->

## Overview

By co-designing the neural networks with the Edge TPU hardware accelerator in
[Tensor](https://blog.google/products/pixel/google-tensor-debuts-new-pixel-6-fall/)
(Google's first phone SoC and the heart of Pixel 6), we have built
EdgeTPU-customized MobileBERT models that demonstrate datacenter model quality
meanwhile outperforms baseline MobileBERT's latency.

We set up our model architecture search space based on
[MobileBERT](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02984) and leverage AutoML algorithms to
find models with up to 2x better hardware utilization. With higher utilization,
we are able to bring larger and more accurate models on chip, and meanwhile the
models can still outperform the baseline MobileBERT latency. The quantized
MobileBERT-EdgeTPU models (int8 quantized tflite will be available soon)
establish a new pareto-frontier for the question answering tasks and overshot
the accuracy of the float BERT_base model which is 400+MB and too large to run
on edge devices.

The small version (s) pretrainer model contains 38.3M parameters, achieves
**72.8% Masked LM accuracy**. Using it as the backbone for SQUAD v1.1, we acheve
**89.4% accuracy with 12.8ms latency** on Tensor SoC Edge TPU. As a comparison,
the baseline MobileBERT quant model inference latency is 15.0ms and accuracy is
87.9%. In addition, Edge TPU in Tensor SoC also supports float precision
computing. The unquantized model shows **90.0% accuracy with 21.8ms latency**.
The accuracy is higher than
[BERT_base (88.5%)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805).

## Example use

Note that this is fine-tunable pretrainer model with encoder network only
(stacked MobileBERT-EdgeTPU transformer layers). Users can use this pretrainer
model along with different head modules for downstream tasks, such as question
answering. Integer and float tflite finetuned on SQUAD v1.1 dataset will be
available soon.

```python

# TF2 version
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub
from official.nlp.modeling import models

# Load the encoder network with trainable=True for fine tuning.
encoder_network = hub.KerasLayer(
    'https://tfhub.dev/google/edgetpu/nlp/mobilebert-edgetpu/s/1',
    trainable=True)
num_trainable_variables = len(encoder_network.trainable_variables)
num_variables = len(encoder_network.variables)
# All variables should be trainable.
assert(num_trainable_variables == num_variables)

# Build Question Answering task model based on the pretrainer encoder.
squad_model = models.BertSpanLabeler(
    network=encoder_network,
    initializer=tf.keras.initializers.TruncatedNormal(stddev=0.01))
squad_model.summary()
```
