# Module tensorflow/tutorials/spam-detection/1
This is a model from the Spam Detection tutorial

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- module-type: text-classification -->
<!-- fine-tunable: false -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- language: en -->

## Overview
This model is to be used for learning only, and is not suitable for production. Using this model you can create a basic comment spam classifier that ranks text according to whether or not the model detects comment spam within.

## Model Description
This model was created using TensorFlow Lite Model Maker as a demonstration model to help developers how to build apps that use NLP classification. It takes a 20x1 tensor as input, representing a 20-word sentence. The words should be encoded according to the key/value pairs in the accompanying dictionary. It returns a 2x1 tensor containing the probabilities that the sentence is not spam / or spam respectively.

## Inputs
The model accepts a 1-D Int32 tensor or numpy array, containing tokens for the words in the sentence to classify, and the tokens are determined by a lookup in the provided dictionary

## Outputs
The model will return a 1-D Float32 array with the first element containing the probability that the sentence provided was not spam, and the second that it is spam



## Limitation

### Suitable Uses
This model is primarily for learning how to create an NLP model from scratch, and how to extend it with new data. It should not be used in any produciton settings

### Limitations
This model was trained on a very small amount of data, and wasn't optimized for produciton use. As such, just use it to learn how to train an NLP model, and how to use it on Android / iOS or the Browser.

