# Module steinding/yolov5/1

Object detection model pretrained on YoloV5. 
<!-- asset-path: https://storage.googleapis.com/model_misc/yolov5.tar.gz -->
<!-- task: image-object-detection -->
<!-- network-architecture: regnety -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- license: custom-->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- colab: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1XkHcer0xh_LvQPkqALJFv-5kPOcXnlF8?usp=sharing -->
## Overview

This model is the implementation of  YoloV5 <sup>[1]</sup>  in keras in TensorFlow 2.4.1. 
The source code is mainly created by LongxingTan. Please check his work of keras Yolov5: https://github.com/LongxingTan/Yolov5.
Steinding mostly focus on creating transfer-learning colabs for this model and capsulating functions for beginners. 

## Using this model

This model is a pretrained object detection classifer based on Yolo-v5. The model is applied on Pascal VOC datasets, which has over 20 classes.
Our saved_model is pre-trained on a 13-class chess pieces dataset. The code snippet below shows how to run the detect.py on a chessboard image.

```python

    '''
    Note: function "create_detect_opt" imported from "params_misc" is open to re-configuration.
    You can change the content of "opt[img_dir]" to select another photo for detection.
    '''
    opt = create_detect_opt()
    test_image_demo(opt['img_dir'], opt['model_dir'], opt['img_size'],
                    opt['class_name_dir'], opt['conf_threshold'],opt['iou_threshold'])
```

About model inputs:
1. The train/detect function of this model is implemented by "train.py" and "detect.py". Both python files are configured by customized args functions in params_misc.
2. To change the dataset/detection object you want to use, you can simply replace them in functions "init_params" and "create_detect_opt".

About model outputs:
1. The original output of the detect.py are actually class indexes and bounding boxes coordinates. The result is translated into user-friendly form in function "draw_box" in "tools/vis_data.py". You can change the texts and bbox patterns over there.

About fine-tuning:
1. The colab tutorial<sup>[2]</sup> we attached above showed a whole process of fine-tuning, we want you to focus on a couple of things. You should keep in mind that learning rate and batch_size must be changed if necessary.
2. Please replace the anchors inside "yolo-s-mish.yaml" if you are changing the dataset. Please re-generate them with create_anchor and do the replacement manually. Comments inside the yaml might be helpful to you.
3. Do not forget to reset the image-size if your dataset has a different image size.

The model needs tensorflow-gpu 2.4.1 and numpy 1.19.5, this model is being tried on higher verisions. CPU training with a higher tf version(2.9.1) is also possible but not recommended.

## References

[1] [YOLOv5 Documentation](https://docs.ultralytics.com/).   
[2] [Fine-tune Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1XkHcer0xh_LvQPkqALJFv-5kPOcXnlF8?usp=sharing) 
