# Module google/humpback_whale/1

Humpback whales acoustic detector (by NOAA & Google).

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- task: audio-event-classification -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- network-architecture: resnet-v1-50 -->
<!-- dataset: noaa-pifsc-harp -->

## Overview

The model classifies 3.92-second context windows of audio as containing or not
containing humpback whale sounds. It is intended to be applied as a detector by
scoring every context window in a set of underwater passive acoustic monitoring
data.

The model feeds a PCEN-normalized spectrogram through a ResNet-50 architecture
to a single logistic output unit. The training data is all from
[HARP](https://doi.org/10.1109/UT.2007.370760) recording platforms deployed at
depths in the hundreds of meters in humpback whale winter breeding grounds in
the Hawaiian archipelago. Further details, including performance metrics, can be
found in:

A. Allen et al., ["A convolutional neural network for automated detection of
humpback whale song in a diverse, long-term passive acoustic
dataset"](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmars.2021.607321),
*Front. Mar. Sci.*, 2021, doi: 10.3389/fmars.2021.607321.

M. Harvey,
["Acoustic Detection of Humpback Whales Using a Convolutional Neural Network,"](https://ai.googleblog.com/2018/10/acoustic-detection-of-humpback-whales.html)
*Google AI Blog*, Oct. 29, 2018.

### Use cases

This model is suitable for:

*   Predicting the presence of a humpback whale call in a given audio sample.
*   Analyzing acoustic data collected by deep-water deployments.

This model is not suitable for:

*   Detecting species of whales other than humpback whales.
*   Counting how many whales are present.
*   Localizing whales.
*   Analyzing acoustic data with high levels of surface or platform noise.

### Usage

#### Main Inference Signature: *score*

The default signature, *score*, is recommended for inference-only use cases. It
scores batches of waveforms at once, framing each waveform in the batch into
multiple context windows before outputting per-window scores.

##### Examples

###### TF2

```python
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

FILENAME = 'gs://bioacoustics-www1/sounds/Cross_02_060203_071428.d20_7.wav'

model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')

waveform, sample_rate = tf.audio.decode_wav(tf.io.read_file(FILENAME))

waveform = tf.expand_dims(waveform, 0)  # makes a batch of size 1
context_step_samples = tf.cast(sample_rate, tf.int64)
score_fn = model.signatures['score']
scores = score_fn(waveform=waveform, context_step_samples=context_step_samples)
print(scores)
```

###### TF1

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

FILENAME = 'gs://bioacoustics-www1/sounds/Cross_02_060203_071428.d20_7.wav'

graph = tf.Graph()
with graph.as_default():
  model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')

  filename = tf.placeholder(tf.string)
  waveform, sample_rate = tf.audio.decode_wav(tf.io.read_file(filename))

  waveform = tf.expand_dims(waveform, 0)  # makes a batch of size 1
  context_step_samples = tf.cast(sample_rate, tf.int64)
  score_fn = model.signatures['score']
  scores = score_fn(
      waveform=waveform, context_step_samples=context_step_samples)

with tf.Session(graph=graph) as sess:
  sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
  feed_dict = {filename: FILENAME}
  print(sess.run(scores, feed_dict))
```

##### Inputs

*   *waveform*, a float32 Tensor of shape [batch_size, num_samples,
    num_channels], where it is required that num_channels = 1, but where
    batch_size and num_samples may take the caller's preferred values on each
    call.
    *   Each audio channel (slice [channel_index, :, 0]), should contain 10kHz
        PCM float32 audio.
        *   The training data left plenty of headroom; the level of clips with
            humpback present was typically 0.003 RMS, 0.02 peak, much "quieter"
            than consumer digital audio.
        *   Although the model is relatively insensitive to input gain
            variations as wide as +/-20 dB, users may wish to apply linear
            scaling to match the levels the model saw in training.
*   *context_samples*, an int64 Tensor of shape [], the hop length at which to
    slide the scoring context window over *waveform*.

##### Outputs

*   *scores*, a float32 Tensor of shape [batch_size, num_windows, num_classes],
    where it will always be true that num_classes = 1, where batch_size will
    equal the one from the input, and where num_windows is determined by
    num_samples and context_step_samples.

#### Advanced Usage

Model attributes allow isolated reuse of parts of the model, in accord with the
[Reusable SavedModels](https://www.tensorflow.org/hub/reusable_saved_models)
interface. The callable attributes exposed are:

*   *front_end*, which can be called on a *waveform* Tensor as described in the
    *score* signature inputs to produce a PCEN-normalized spectrogram of shape
    [batch_size, num_stft_bins, num_channels], where num_channels = 64 is fixed
    and where num_stft_bins depends on the number of input samples.
*   *features*, which when called on a PCEN spectrogram slice of shape
    [batch_size, 128, 64] produces feature vectors of shape [batch_size, 2048].
    (These might be useful for detecting other audio event types in the HARP
    data or similar underwater passive acoustic monitoring datasets, but the
    model developers have not yet validated this through experiment.)
*   *logits*, which, when called on the same type of input as *features*,
    outputs the log odds of the input spectrogram containing humpback
    vocalization.

##### Examples

###### TF2

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

FILENAME = 'gs://bioacoustics-www1/sounds/Cross_02_060203_071428.d20_7.wav'

model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')

waveform, _ = tf.audio.decode_wav(tf.io.read_file(FILENAME))
waveform = tf.expand_dims(waveform, 0)  # makes a batch of size 1

pcen_spectrogram = model.front_end(waveform)
context_window = pcen_spectrogram[:, :128, :]
features = model.features(context_window)
logits = model.logits(context_window)
probabilities = tf.nn.sigmoid(logits)

print({
    'pcen_spectrogram': pcen_spectrogram,
    'features': features,
    'logits': logits,
    'probabilities': probabilities,
})
```

###### TF1

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

FILENAME = 'gs://bioacoustics-www1/sounds/Cross_02_060203_071428.d20_7.wav'

graph = tf.Graph()
with graph.as_default():
  model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')

  filename = tf.placeholder(tf.string)
  waveform, _ = tf.audio.decode_wav(tf.io.read_file(filename))
  waveform = tf.expand_dims(waveform, 0)  # makes a batch of size 1

  pcen_spectrogram = model.front_end(waveform)
  context_window = pcen_spectrogram[:, :128, :]
  features = model.features(context_window)
  logits = model.logits(context_window)
  probabilities = tf.nn.sigmoid(logits)

with tf.Session(graph=graph) as sess:
  sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())
  feed_dict = {filename: FILENAME}
  print(
      sess.run(
          {
              'pcen_spectrogram': pcen_spectrogram,
              'features': features,
              'logits': logits,
              'probabilities': probabilities,
          }, feed_dict))
```

#### Introspection

The *metadata* signature returns the sample rate of the audio the model expects
to see as input and the duration of the context window to which each score
applies. This signature is a bit of future proofing so that batch inference
systems can support models where these values may differ.

##### Examples

###### TF2

```python
import tensorflow_hub as hub

model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')
metadata_fn = model.signatures['metadata']
metadata = metadata_fn()
print(metadata)
```

###### TF1

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

graph = tf.Graph()
with graph.as_default():
  model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/humpback_whale/1')
  metadata_fn = model.signatures['metadata']
  metadata = metadata_fn()

with tf.Session(graph=graph) as sess:
  print(sess.run(metadata))
```

### Dataset

Through a partnership with the
[NOAA National Center for Environmental Information](http://www.ncei.noaa.gov),
the audio and labels are available as part of the Google Cloud Platform
[Passive Acoustic Monitoring public data set](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/noaa-public/passive_acoustic_monitoring)
under the
[pifsc/](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/noaa-passive-bioacoustic/pifsc)
path prefix as well as through NCEI at
DOI:[10.25921/Z787-9Y54](https://doi.org/10.25921/Z787-9Y54).

### Acknowledgements

The model developers thank NOAA Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center for
collecting and sharing the data and for their partnership in the model
development process, which included providing the initial training labels as
well as labels for several rounds of active learning that improved candidate
models.

Regarding the dataset, please also refer to the funding and acknowledgement
sections in
[Allen et al.](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fmars.2021.607321)

### Terms of Use

This model has been developed as part of the AI for Social Good program at
Google. The developers request that users adhere to
[Google’s AI principles](https://ai.google/principles/), in particular #1 “Be
socially beneficial." in only pursuing applications which have societal and/or
environmental benefit, as well as wildlife conservation for not-for-profit
decision-making, education, or research. (The official license remains Apache
2.0.) If you have any questions about appropriate use cases for this model,
please contact bioacoustics-project@google.com.

### Limitations

#### Limits to Generalization

There is wide variation in underwater acoustic conditions and recording
equipment, and the training set for this model covered only one type of
recording platform, only one geographic area, and only deep-water deployments.
Anecdotally, the developers have observed both successes and failures of the
model to generalize to mismatched conditions. Specific examples include:

*   (success) predictions consistent with real-time human observations on towed
    array and Sonobuoys at depths in the tens of meters
*   (success) predictions consistent with manual analysis of historical data on
    an ocean-bottom cabled hydrophone in a different geographic region
*   (failure) a high rate of false positives on a dataset from a mobile surface
    platform, which therefore had higher levels of platform and flow noise
*   (failure) loss of recall when masking by vessel noise is especially severe

**Users are encouraged to manually verify the performance of the model on a
sample of audio representative of their own inference conditions before drawing
conclusions based on its output.**

#### Lack of Output Calibration

The logits represent the model's level of confidence in a binary decision, not
true probabilities of humpback presence. (For example, in our eval set, where
about 10% of the examples were positives, precision was already 90% at a
"probability" threshold of 0.1 - or equivalently a logit threshold of -2.2.)
Applications needing true probabilities should calibrate the output on a sample
of their own data.

### Feedback

We would like to hear your feedback! Please feel out our
[feedback form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdEHbhNdOTpdiyi5Tm-AIULu8LkgoKhJdbjSo6xqlc2XZfcVg/viewform?resourcekey=0-OjyIg0LWS1c_03AkvSLsGw).
