# Module google/bert_multi_cased_L-12_H-768_A-12/1

Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers (BERT).

[![Open Colab notebook]](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google-research/bert/blob/master/predicting_movie_reviews_with_bert_on_tf_hub.ipynb)

<!-- dataset: wikipedia-and-bookscorpus -->
<!-- asset-path: legacy -->
<!-- network-architecture: transformer -->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- format: hub -->
<!-- module-type: text-embedding -->


## Overview

This module contains a deep bidirectional transformer trained on Wikipedia and
the BookCorpus. The details are described in the paper "BERT: Pre-training of
Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding" [1].

This module assumes pre-processed inputs from the BERT repository
(https://github.com/google-research/bert)

This modules outputs a representations for every token in the input sequence and
a pooled representation of the entire input.

#### Trainable parameters

All parameters in the module are trainable, and fine-tuning all parameters is
the recommended practice.

#### Example use

Please see
https://github.com/google-research/bert/blob/master/run_classifier_with_tfhub.py
for how the input preprocessing should be done to retrieve the input ids, masks,
and segment ids.

```
bert_module = hub.Module(
    "https://tfhub.dev/google/bert_multi_cased_L-12_H-768_A-12/1",
    trainable=True, tags={"train"} if training else None)
bert_inputs = dict(
    input_ids=input_ids,
    input_mask=input_mask,
    segment_ids=segment_ids)
bert_outputs = bert_module(bert_inputs, signature="tokens", as_dict=True)
pooled_output = bert_outputs["pooled_output"]
sequence_output = bert_outputs["sequence_output"]
```

The pooled_output is a `[batch_size, hidden_size]` Tensor. The sequence_output
is a `[batch_size, sequence_length, hidden_size]` Tensor.

### Inputs

We currently only support the `tokens` signature, which assumes pre-processed
inputs. `input_ids`, `input_mask`, and `segment_ids` are `int32` Tensors of
shape `[batch_size, max_sequence_length]`

### Outputs

The output dictionary contains:

*   `pooled_output`: pooled output of the entire sequence with shape
    `[batch_size, hidden_size]`.
*   `sequence_output`: representations of every token in the input sequence with
    shape `[batch_size, max_sequence_length, hidden_size]`.

## Changelog

#### Version 1

*   Initial release.

** TF2 SavedModel variants of bert models can be found in the
[bert collection](https://tfhub.dev/google/collections/bert/1). **

#### References

[1] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova. [BERT:
Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language
Understanding](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805). arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.
