# Lite rishit-dagli/faster-rccn-cppe5-lite/fp16/1
TF Lite quantized version of the Faster RCNN model (with ResNet 101 backbone) trained on the CPPE - 5 (Medical Personal Protective Equipment) dataset [1].

<!-- parent-model: rishit-dagli/faster-rccn-cppe5-lite/1 -->
<!-- asset-path: https://storage.googleapis.com/cppe-5/trained_models/faster_rcnn/lite/model_fp16.tflite -->

### Overview
The Faster RCNN model was proposed by Ren et al. in the paper "Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks" [2]. The Faster RCNN models is trained on the CPPE - 5 dataset we present in our paper "CPPE - 5: Medical Personal Protective Equipment Dataset" [1] which is a new challenging dataset with an aim to facilitate the study of subordinate categorization of medical personal protective equipments. This dataset mostly contains non-iconic images or or non-canonical perspectives in their natural context. This allows models to be better at generalizing, being easily deployable to real-world scenarios and often contain other objects in an image as well.

We include the training code as well some tools for this model in our paper GitHub repository [3].

### Model Performance
Here we present the performance of the Faster RCNN model on the CPPE - 5 dataset. For evaluation, we adopt the metrics from the COCO detection evaluation criteria, including the mean Average Precision (AP) across IoU thresholds ranging from 0.50 to 0.95 at different scales.

|   Method    | AP<sup>box</sup> | AP<sub>50</sub><sup>box</sup> | AP<sub>75</sub><sup>box</sup> | AP<sub>S</sub><sup>box</sup> | AP<sub>M</sub><sup>box</sup> | AP<sub>L</sub><sup>box</sup> |
|:-----------:|:--------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------:|:-------:|:------:|
| Faster RCNN |            44.0            |                  73.8                   |                  47.8                   |                   30.0                   |                   34.7                   |                   52.5                   | 

### Note

- This model was quantized using `float16` quantization as described [here](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/performance/post_training_float16_quant).
- This model takes fixed-shaped (800 x 1216) inputs.
- This model has been converted using the [TF Lite converter API](https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/convert).

### References

[1] 

[2] Ren, Shaoqing et al. “Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection with Region Proposal Networks”. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 39.6 (2017): 1137–1149. Web.

[3] https://github.com/Rishit-dagli/CPPE-Dataset