# Module google/seefood/segmenter/mobile_food_segmenter_V1/1

Mobile food segmentation model.

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- module-type: image-segmentation -->
<!-- fine-tunable: false -->
<!-- format: hub -->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- network-architecture: MobileNet V2 -->
<!-- dataset: Multiple -->
<!-- interactive-model-name: vision -->

## Overview

This food semantic segmentation model parses an input dish image into regions of
26 food groups (e.g. “leafy_greens”, “noodles/pasta”, etc.).

The label map was constructed by our own team based on USDA dietary guidelines
and lists of popular dishes in Google Maps and Lens.

### Input

This model takes a single image as input.

*   The input is expected to be a 3-channel RGB image of size 513 x 513,
    scaled to [0, 1].

### Output

This model outputs a segmentation prediction mask and a segmentation probability vector for each pixel.

*   `SemanticPredictions`: A semantic segmentation mask with shape equal
    to the input image shape `[height, width]` of type `int64`. Value `(i,j)` of
    this segmentation contains the predicted class of pixel at row `i` and
    column `j`, indexing into the
    [labelmap](https://www.gstatic.com/aihub/tfhub/labelmaps/seefood_mobile_food_segmenter_V1_labelmap.csv).
*   `SemanticProbabilities`: A semantic segmentation probability vector with
    shape `[height, width, 26]`. Value `(i, j, k)` corresponds to the
    probability that the pixel at row `i` column `j` has class `k`.

## Example Use

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub

m = hub.KerasLayer('https://tfhub.dev/google/seefood/segmenter/mobile_food_segmenter_V1/1')
...
```

## Model architecture

This semantic segmentation model adopts the
[DeepLab-V3](https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.02611) neural network architecture with
[MobileNet-V2](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04381) backbone. It was trained and
evaluated on a Google-internal food ingredient parsing dataset.

## Suitable usecases

*   This model is suitable for making a coarse-grained guess of the major
    ingredients of the input food dish.

## Unsuitable usecases

*   This model’s prediction is not always accurate. Please don’t rely on the
    model’s predictions solely to make dietary decisions. The model might be
    used by some nutrition tracking apps as an add-on feature, but since the
    model’s label map is coarse-level food groups, it cannot be used for
    accurate nutrition tracking.
*   This model assumes that the input is a well-cropped food image. If the input
    is not well-cropped or does not comprise the 26 food items in the labelmap,
    the output may be incorrect.

## License

This model follows [*Apache 2.0*](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
If you intend to use it beyond permissible usage, please consult with the model
owners ahead of time.
