# Module google/universal-sentence-encoder-qa/1

Greater-than-word length text encoder for question answer retrieval.

<!-- module-type: text-embedding -->
<!-- asset-path: legacy -->
<!-- network-architecture: transformer -->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- format: hub -->

[![Open Colab notebook]](https://colab.research.google.com/github/tensorflow/hub/blob/b6dcaaacd7dd931692290ba2cd05a3c4eb46a17d/examples/colab/retrieval_with_tf_hub_universal_encoder_qa.ipynb)

### Model Details

*   Developed by researchers at Google, 2019, v1 [1].
*   Transformer.
*   Strong performance on question answer retrieval for English.
*   Use the __question_encoder__ signature to encode variable length questions
    in any of the aforementioned languages and the output is a 512 dimensional
    vector. The default signature is identical with the question_encoder
    signature.
*   Use the __response_encoder__ signature to encode the answer and the output
    is a 512 dimensional vector.
*   The __response_encoder__ signature acceptes two input fields:
    *   __text__: the answer text.
    *   __context__: usually the text around the answer text, for example it
        could be 2 sentences before plus 2 sentences after, it could also be the
        paragraph containing the answer text. If you don't have context to
        include, you can duplicate of answer into this field.
*   *All input text can have arbitrary length!* However, model time and space
    complexity is *O(n^2)* for question and response input length *n* and *O(n)*
    for context length. We recommend question and response inputs that are
    approximately one sentence in length.

To learn more about text embeddings, refer to the
[TensorFlow Embeddings](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/text/word_embeddings)
documentation.

### Intended Use

*   It is trained on a variety of data sources and tasks, with the goal of
    learning text representations that are useful out-of-the-box to retrieve an
    answer given a question, as well as question and answers across different
    languages.
*   It can also be used in other applications, including any type of text
    classification, clustering, etc.

### Factors

*   The Universal Sentence Encoder Multilingual QA module is an extension of the
    [Universal Sentence Encoder](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder/2)
    that is for question answer retrieval and trained on multiple tasks across
    languages.
*   The multi-task training setup is based on the paper "Learning Cross-lingual
    Sentence Representations via a Multi-task Dual Encoder" [2].
*   Important: notice that the language of the text input does not need to be
    specified, as the model was trained such that text across languages with
    similar meanings will have embeddings with high dot product scores.

#### Universal Sentence Encoder family

There are several versions of universal sentence encoder models trained with
different goals including size/performance multilingual, and fine-grained
question answer retrieval.

*   [universal-sentence-encoder](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder/2)
*   [universal-sentence-encoder-large](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-large/3)
*   [universal-sentence-encoder-lite](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-lite/2)
*   [universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual/1)
*   [universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual-large](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual-large/1)

### Metrics

*   We apply this model on the
    [SQuAD retrieval task](https://github.com/google/retrieval-qa-eval). See
    performance below:

    <table style="table-layout:auto;">
      <tr style="text-align:center;">
        <th>SQuAD Retrieval</th>
        <th>dev</th>
        <th>train</th>
      </tr>
      <tr style="text-align:center;">
        <td rowspan="10">Precision@1</td>
        <td rowspan="5">56.1</td>
        <td rowspan="5">46.2</td>
      </tr>
    </table>

#### Example use

```python
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub
import numpy as np

questions = ["What is your age?"]
responses = ["I am 20 years old.", "good morning"]
response_contexts = ["I will be 21 next year.", "great day."]

# Set up graph.
g = tf.Graph()
with g.as_default():
  module = hub.Module("https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-qa/1")
  question_embeddings = module(
    dict(input=questions),
    signature="question_encoder", as_dict=True)

  response_embeddings = module(
    dict(input=responses,
         context=response_contexts),
    signature="response_encoder", as_dict=True)

  init_op = tf.group([tf.global_variables_initializer(), tf.tables_initializer()])
g.finalize()

# Initialize session.
session = tf.Session(graph=g)
session.run(init_op)

# Compute embeddings.
question_results = session.run(question_embeddings)
response_results = session.run(response_embeddings)

np.inner(question_results["outputs"], response_results["outputs"])
```

## References

[1] Yinfei Yang, Daniel Cer, Amin Ahmad, Mandy Guo, Jax Law, Noah Constant,
Gustavo Hernandez Abrego , Steve Yuan, Chris Tar, Yun-hsuan Sung, Ray Kurzweil.
[Multilingual Universal Sentence Encoder for Semantic Retrieval](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04307).
July 2019

[2] Muthuraman Chidambaram, Yinfei Yang, Daniel Cer, Steve Yuan, Yun-Hsuan Sung,
Brian Strope, Ray Kurzweil. [Learning Cross-Lingual Sentence Representations via
a Multi-task Dual-Encoder Model](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.12836). To appear,
Repl4NLP@ACL, July 2019.
