# Module adityakane2001/regnety200mf_classification/1

RegNetY 200MF image classifier pretrained on ImageNet-1k.

<!-- asset-path: https://storage.googleapis.com/ak-regnety-savedmodels/tars/regnety200mf_classification.tar.gz  -->
<!-- task: image-classification -->
<!-- network-architecture: regnety -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- license: apache-2.0 -->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- colab: https://colab.research.google.com/github/AdityaKane2001/regnety/blob/temp_notebook/RegNetY_models_in_TF_2_5.ipynb -->

## Overview

This model is the implementation of  RegNetY<sup>[1]</sup>  in TensorFlow 2.5.

## Using this model

This model is a pretrained classifier on ImageNet-1k. This means that you can directly classify images over 1000 predefined classes.

```python
model = tf.keras.Sequential([
    hub.KerasLayer("https://tfhub.dev/adityakane2001/regnety200mf_classification/1")
])
predictions = model.predict(images) 
```

Inputs to the model must:
1. be four dimensional Tensors of the shape `(batch_size, height, width, num_channels)`. Note that the model expects images with  `channels_last`  property. `height`,`width` and `batch_size` can be any value based on user's preference. `num_channels` must be 3.
2. have pixel values in the range `[0, 255]`.

Model outputs can be inferred based on mapping of integers to labels as in here<sup>[2]</sup>. 

For downstream task that involves fine-tuning, it is recommended to use a feature extractor of this model. Fine tuning this model is explained in accompanying Colab notebook.

Note that all images are resized to 224x224 inside the model itself. This means the heavylifting of resizing all images is delegated to the hardware accelerator.   
This also implies that even though you may pass large images, they will be resized to 224x224. So passing large images will not result in a difference in performance.

One known caveat of this implementation is as of TensorFlow 2.5, this model can run only on GPU or TPU and not CPU. This is because grouped convolutions used in this model are not supported on CPUs be TensorFlow. At the time of writing this, grouped convs are not functional at all in Keras with TensorFlow 2.6.0. You can track the progress on this [here](https://github.com/keras-team/keras/issues/15162).   

## References

[1] [Designing Network Design Spaces by Radosavovic et al](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.13678).   
[2] [imagenet_synset_to_human.json](https://github.com/AdityaKane2001/regnety/blob/main/regnety/config/imagenet_synset_to_human.json) 