# Module google/yamnet/1
An audio event classifier trained on the AudioSet dataset to predict audio events from the AudioSet ontology.

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- task: audio-event-classification -->
<!-- fine-tunable: false -->
<!-- format: saved_model_2 -->
<!-- network-architecture: mobilenet-v1 -->
<!-- dataset: audioset -->
<!-- colab: https://colab.research.google.com/github/tensorflow/hub/blob/master/examples/colab/yamnet.ipynb -->

## Overview

### Model description

YAMNet is an audio event classifier that takes audio waveform as input and makes independent predictions for each of 521 audio events from the [AudioSet](https://g.co/audioset) ontology. The model uses the MobileNet v1 architecture and was trained using the AudioSet corpus. This model was originally released in the [TensorFlow Model Garden](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/audioset/yamnet), where we have the model source code, the original model checkpoint, and more detailed documentation.

### Inputs

The model accepts a 1-D `float32` Tensor or NumPy array containing a waveform of arbitrary length, represented as mono 16 kHz samples in the range `[-1.0, +1.0]`. Internally, we frame the waveform into sliding windows of length 0.96 seconds and hop 0.48 seconds, and then run the core of the model on a batch of these frames.

### Outputs

Assume that the input batch size is `N` frames after performing the framing described in the Inputs section above.

The model returns a 3-tuple (scores, embeddings, log_mel_spectrogram) where

* scores is a `float32` Tensor of shape (`N`, 521) containing the per-frame predicted scores for each of the 521 classes in the AudioSet ontology that are supported by YAMNet. See below for how to map from column index to class name.
* embeddings is a `float32` Tensor of shape (`N`, 1024) containing per-frame embeddings, where the embedding vector is the average-pooled output that feeds into the final classifier layer.
* log_mel_spectrogram is a `float32` Tensor representing the log mel spectrogram of the entire waveform. These are the audio features passed into the model and have shape (`num_spectrogram_frames`, 64) where `num_spectrogram_frames` is the number of frames produced from the waveform by sliding a spectrogram analysis window of length 0.025 seconds with hop 0.01 seconds, and 64 represents the number of mel bins. See [our GitHub repository](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/audioset/yamnet) for more detail.

Scores can be used to directly identify audio events in the input waveform, for instance by aggregating per-class scores across frames (e.g., mean or max aggregation). Embeddings are useful to use YAMNet within a larger model or to train a shallow model using YAMNet as a semantic feature extractor. The log mel spectrogram output is mainly useful for visualization and debugging.

The column index (0-520) of the scores tensor is mapped to the corresponding AudioSet class name using the YAMNet Class Map, which is available as a [CSV file in our GitHub repository](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/blob/master/research/audioset/yamnet/yamnet_class_map.csv) as well as an asset of the TF-Hub model accessible via the `class_map_path()` method. See below for usage.

### Usage

Here's how you would use the model in TensorFlow 2.

```python
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub
import numpy as np
import csv
import io

# Load the model.
model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/yamnet/1')

# Input: 3 seconds of silence as mono 16 kHz waveform samples.
waveform = np.zeros(3 * 16000, dtype=np.float32)

# Run the model, check the output.
scores, embeddings, log_mel_spectrogram = model(waveform)
scores.shape.assert_is_compatible_with([None, 521])
embeddings.shape.assert_is_compatible_with([None, 1024])
log_mel_spectrogram.shape.assert_is_compatible_with([None, 64])

# Find the name of the class with the top score when mean-aggregated across frames.
def class_names_from_csv(class_map_csv_text):
  """Returns list of class names corresponding to score vector."""
  class_map_csv = io.StringIO(class_map_csv_text)
  class_names = [display_name for (class_index, mid, display_name) in csv.reader(class_map_csv)]
  class_names = class_names[1:]  # Skip CSV header
  return class_names
class_map_path = model.class_map_path().numpy()
class_names = class_names_from_csv(tf.io.read_file(class_map_path).numpy().decode('utf-8'))
print(class_names[scores.numpy().mean(axis=0).argmax()])  # Should print 'Silence'.
```

You can also run the model in TensorFlow 1.

```python
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub
import numpy as np
import csv
import io

with tf.Graph().as_default():
    model = hub.load('https://tfhub.dev/google/yamnet/1')
    waveform = np.zeros(3 * 16000, dtype=np.float32)
    outputs = model(waveform)
    class_map_csv_bytes = tf.io.read_file(model.class_map_path())
    with tf.train.MonitoredSession() as sess:
      predictions, embeddings, log_mel_spectrogram = sess.run(outputs)
      print(predictions.shape, embeddings.shape, log_mel_spectrogram.shape)  # (N, 521) (N, 1024) (M, 64)
      # See TF2 usage sample for class_names_from_csv() definition.
      class_names = class_names_from_csv(sess.run(class_map_csv_bytes).decode('utf-8'))
      print(class_names[scores.mean(axis=0).argmax()])  # Should print 'Silence'.
```

### Suitable uses

YAMNet can be used

* as a stand-alone audio event classifier that provides a reasonable baseline across a wide variety of audio events.
* as a high-level feature extractor: the 1024-D embedding output of YAMNet can be used as the input features of another shallow model which can then be trained on a small amount of data for a particular task. This allows quickly creating specialized audio classifiers without requiring a lot of labeled data and without having to train a large model end-to-end.
* as a warm start: the YAMNet model parameters can be used to initialize part of a larger model which allows faster fine-tuning and model exploration.

### Limitations

* YAMNet's classifier outputs have not been calibrated across classes, so you cannot directly treat the outputs as probabilities. For any given task, you will very likely need to perform a calibration with task-specific data which lets you assign proper per-class score thresholds and scaling.
* YAMNet has been trained on millions of YouTube videos and although these are very diverse, there can still be a domain mismatch between the average YouTube video and the audio inputs expected for any given task. You should expect to do some amount of fine-tuning and calibration to make YAMNet usable in any system that you build.
