# Tfjs google/movenet/singlepose/thunder/3

A deployment format of google/movenet/singlepose/thunder/3

A convolutional neural network model that runs on RGB images and predicts human
joint locations of a single person. The model is designed to be run in the
browser using Tensorflow.js or on devices using TF Lite in real-time, targeting
movement/fitness activities. This variant: MoveNet.SinglePose.Thunder is a
higher capacity model (compared to MoveNet.SinglePose.Lightning) that performs
better prediction quality while still achieving real-time (>30FPS) speed.
Naturally, thunder will lag behind the lightning, but it will pack a punch.

<!-- parent-model: google/movenet/singlepose/thunder/3 -->
<!-- asset-path: internal -->

## Model Specifications

The following sessions describe the general model information. Please see the
[model card](https://storage.googleapis.com/movenet/MoveNet.SinglePose%20Model%20Card.pdf)
for more detailed information and quantitative analysis.

### Model Architecture

[MobileNetV2](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04381) image feature extractor with
[Feature Pyramid Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.03144) decoder (to stride
of 4) followed by [CenterNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.07850) prediction heads
with custom post-processing logics. **Thunder** uses depth multiplier 1.75.

### Inputs

A frame of video or an image, represented as an int32 tensor of shape:
256x256x3. Channels order: RGB with values in [0, 255].

### Outputs

A float32 tensor of shape [1, 1, 17, 3].

*   The first two channels of the last dimension represents the yx coordinates
    (normalized to image frame, i.e. range in [0.0, 1.0]) of the 17 keypoints
    (in the order of: *[nose, left eye, right eye, left ear, right ear, left
    shoulder, right shoulder, left elbow, right elbow, left wrist, right wrist,
    left hip, right hip, left knee, right knee, left ankle, right ankle]*).

*   The third channel of the last dimension represents the prediction confidence
    scores of each keypoint, also in the range [0.0, 1.0].

### Usage

This model can be loaded using Tensorflow.js as:

```javascript
tf.loadGraphModel("https://tfhub.dev/google/movenet/singlepose/thunder/tfjs/2", { fromTFHub: true });
```

## Intended Use

### Primary Intended Uses

*   Optimized to be run in the browser environment using Tensorflow.js with
    WebGL support or on-device with TF Lite.
*   Tuned to be robust on **detecting fitness/fast movement with difficult poses
    and/or motion blur**.
*   Most suitable for detecting the pose of a single person who is **3ft ~ 6ft**
    away from a device’s webcam that captures the video stream.
*   Focus on detecting the pose of the person who is closest to the image center
    and ignore the other people who are in the image frame (i.e. background
    people rejection).
*   The model predicts **17 human keypoints** of the full body even when they
    are occluded. For the keypoints which are outside of the image frame, the
    model will emit low confidence scores. A confidence threshold (recommended
    default: 0.3) can be used to filter out unconfident predictions.

### Primary Intended Users

*   People who build applications (e.g. fitness/physical movement, AR
    entertainment) that require very **fast inference** and **good quality
    single-person pose detection** (with background people rejection) on
    **standard consumer devices** (e.g. laptops, tablets, cell phones).

### Out-of-scope Use Cases

*   This model is not intended for detecting poses of multiple people in the
    image.
*   Any form of surveillance or identity recognition is explicitly out of scope
    and not enabled by this technology.
*   The model does not store/use/send any information in the input images at
    inference time.

## License

This model follows [*Apache 2.0*](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).
If you intend to use it beyond permissible usage, please consult with the model
owners ahead of time.

## Changelog

### Version 3
*   Fixed the postprocessing logic which causes accuracy issue when running as float16 precision.

### Version 2
*   Improved pose prediction accuracy.
*   Updated the feature extractor's upsampling ops such that the model is WASM compatible.

### Version 1
Initial release.
