# Module deepmind/mmv/s3d/1

MultiModal Versatile Networks for video, audio and language.

<!-- asset-path: internal -->
<!-- task: video-audio-text -->
<!-- fine-tunable: true -->
<!-- format: hub -->
<!-- language: en -->
<!-- network-architecture: s3d-g -->

## Overview

An S3D-Audio-Text pretrained model that can be used as a video feature
extractor, an audio feature extractor or to compute similarity scores between
short video clips and sentences, or between video clips and audio streams or
between audio streams and sentences. The model was trained using uncurated
videos only containing audio tracks and sometimes verbal narrations. More
details about the training and the model can be found in [1]. The model
corresponds to the MMV FAC model S3D-G in Table 2 of the paper.

## Example use

Import tensorflow and tensorflow hub.

```python
import numpy as np
import tensorflow.compat.v2 as tf
import tensorflow_hub as hub
```

Inputs should be tensors of the following type:

```python
# inputs_frames must be in [0, 1] and of the shape Batch x T x H x W x 3
B, T, H, W = 1, 32, 200, 200
input_frames = np.zeros([B, T, H, W, 3], np.float32)
# inputs_audio must be in [-1, 1] and of the shape Batch x T'
T = 153600
input_audio = np.zeros([B, T], np.float32)
# inputs_words are just a list of sentences (i.e. ['the sky is blue', 'someone cutting an apple'])
input_words = np.array(['the sky is blue', 'someone cutting an apple'])
```

**NB**: The video network is fully convolutional (with global average pooling in
time and space at the end). However, we recommend using `T=32` frames (same as
during training). For `H` and `W` we have been using values from `200` to `256`.
Note that the frame rate used during training was 10 and we recommend also using
that for the input clips (3.2 seconds). The audio network is also fully
convolutional (with global average pooling in time and frequency at the end).
However, we recommend using `T'=153600` at a frequency of 48kHz (3.2 seconds).
The computation of the spectrogram will happen directly in the graph so one
should just give raw audio signal as input.

Load the model in testing mode:

```python
module = hub.load("https://tfhub.dev/deepmind/mmv/s3d/1")
```

Alternatively, you can also load the video model in training mode to activate
the batch normalization training mode:

```python
module = hub.load("https://tfhub.dev/deepmind/mmv/s3d/1", tags={"train"})
```

Inference:

```python
vision_output = module.signatures['video'](tf.constant(tf.cast(input_frames, dtype=tf.float32)))
audio_output = module.signatures['audio'](tf.constant(tf.cast(input_audio, dtype=tf.float32)))
text_output = module.signatures['text'](tf.constant(input_words))
```

Note that `vision_output` is a dictionary which contains three keys:

*   `before_head`: This is the global averaged pooled feature from S3D of
    dimension 1024. This should be used for classification on downstream tasks.

*   `va`: This is the video embedding (size 512) from the joint video-audio
    space (fine space in the paper). It should be used to compute similarity
    scores with audio inputs using the audio embedding.

*   `vat`: This is the video embedding (size 256) from the joint
    video-audio-text space (coarse space in the paper). It should be used to
    compute similarity scores with text or audio inputs using the text or audio
    embedding.

`audio_output` is a dictionary which contains three keys:

*   `last_conv`: This is the output feature from the ResNet50 Audio network
    (before average pooling) of feature dimension 2048 and spatio-frequency
    dimensions that depends on the size of the input. This should be used for
    classification on downstream tasks.

*   `va`: This is the audio embedding (size 512) from the joint video-audio
    space (fine space in the paper). It should be used to compute similarity
    scores with video inputs using the video embedding.

*   `vat`: This is the audio embedding (size 256) from the joint
    video-audio-text space (coarse space in the paper). It should be used to
    compute similarity scores with text or video inputs using the text or video
    embedding.

`text_output` is also a dictionary containing a single key:

*   `vat`: It is the text embedding (size 256) from the joint video-audio-text
    space (coarse space in the paper). To compute the similarity score between
    text and video, you would compute the dot product between the `vat` output
    from the `video_output` and the `vat` output from the `text_output`.

A few examples for computing all the pairwise similarities:

```python

# Text versus video.
video_embedding = vision_output['vat']
text_embedding = text_output['vat']
# We compute all the pairwise similarity scores between video and text.
sim_matrix = tf.matmul(text_embedding, video_embedding, transpose_b=True)

# Audio versus video.
video_embedding = vision_output['va']
audio_embedding = audio_output['va']
# We compute all the pairwise similarity scores between video and audio.
sim_matrix = tf.matmul(audio_embedding, video_embedding, transpose_b=True)

# Audio versus text.
text_embedding = text_output['vat']
audio_embedding = audio_output['vat']
# We compute all the pairwise similarity scores between audio and text.
sim_matrix = tf.matmul(audio_embedding, text_embedding, transpose_b=True)

```

## References

If you use this model in your research please consider citing:

[1] Jean-Baptiste Alayrac\*, Adrià Recasens\*, Rosalia Schneider\*, Relja
Arandjelović\*, Jason Ramapuram, Jeffrey De Fauw, Lucas Smaira, Sander Dieleman
and Andrew Zisserman,
[Self-Supervised MultiModal Versatile Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.16228),
NeurIPS 2020, \*equal contribution
