> On January 24, 2022, we updated our TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms of Service
> ("**Additional Terms**") to help clarify and make it easier to understand what
> to expect as you use the service. These changes won't affect the way you use
> TensorFlow Hub. You can access the Archived Terms
> [here](./TERMS_ARCHIVE_202201.md) and a summary of the changes
> [here](./TERMS_UPDATES.md).

Effective January 24, 2022 \| [Archived
version](./TERMS_ARCHIVE_202201.md)

# TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms of Service

Thank you for using TensorFlow Hub! By accessing or using TensorFlow Hub, you
agree to be bound by: (1) the [Google Terms of
Service](https://www.google.com/intl/ALL/policies/terms/index.html) (the
**"Universal Terms"**); (2) these TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms of Service
(the **"TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms"**); (3) the [Google Privacy
Policy](https://www.google.com/intl/ALL/policies/privacy/index.html) (the
**"Privacy Policy"**); and (4) any other operating rules, policies, and
procedures that we may publish from time to time on TensorFlow Hub
(collectively, the **"Terms"**). Please read the Terms carefully, starting with
the Universal Terms. TensorFlow Hub is a "service" as defined in the Universal
Terms. The Terms establish what you can expect from us as you use TensorFlow
Hub, and what we expect from you, and they form a binding agreement between you
and Google related to your use of TensorFlow Hub. If you are accepting these
Terms on behalf of an organization or company, see the section in the Universal
Terms called "[Using Google services on behalf of an organization or
business](https://policies.google.com/terms#as-organization)".

## A. Definitions

All defined terms in the [Universal Terms](https://policies.google.com/terms)
also apply to these TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms, along with the following
definitions:

**"content"** means any content provided, uploaded, shared, featured, or
displayed through TensorFlow Hub, including text, data, articles, images,
videos, photographs, audio, models, metadata, graphics, software, code,
services, applications, designs, features, and other materials that are
available on or via TensorFlow Hub - whether that content belongs to you, Google
or other people or organizations.

**"high risk activities"** <a name="hra"></a> means activities where the use or
failure of the TensorFlow Hub services or content could lead to death, personal
injury, or environmental damage (including operation of nuclear facilities, air
traffic control, life support systems, or weaponry).

**"including"** means including but not limited to.

**"TensorFlow Hub"** means (a) the TensorFlow Hub website located at
[http://www.tfhub.dev](http://www.tfhub.dev/) and all related subdomains, and
(b) all services and content provided via such website and subdomains that are
not user-generated content.

## B. Acceptable Use

### Basic Rules of Conduct

The section in the Universal Terms called "[respect
others](https://policies.google.com/terms#respect)" outlines the basic rules of
conduct that apply to your use of TensorFlow Hub. You are responsible for (a)
ensuring that your use of TensorFlow Hub is in compliance with those basic rules
of conduct, and (b) obtaining any necessary consents from third parties that may
be required under the Terms or by applicable law.

### Content Restrictions

In addition to any restrictions on your content as set forth in the Universal
Terms, you also agree that your content:

-   is not unlawful and does not promote unlawful activities;
-   does not contain sexually obscene content;
-   is not libelous, defamatory, or fraudulent;
-   is not discriminatory or abusive toward any individual or group;
-   does not contain or install any active malware or exploits, or use
    TensorFlow Hub for exploit delivery (such as part of a related command and
    control system);
-   does not infringe on any legal right of any party, including [intellectual
    property
    rights](https://policies.google.com/terms/definitions#toc-terms-intellectual-property-rights);
-   is not intended for [high risk activities](#hra);
-   is not subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)
    maintained by the U.S. Department of State;
-   is not Protected Health Information ("**PHI**"), as defined under the Health
    Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as it may be amended
    from time to time, and any regulations issued under it ("**HIPAA**").

### Conduct Restrictions

a.  You agree to not use TensorFlow Hub (including any content) to:

  -   harass, abuse, threaten, or incite violence towards any individual or
        group;
  -   generate, distribute, publish, or facilitate unsolicited mass email,
        promotions, advertising, or other solicitations ("**spam**");
  -   engage in any other unlawful, invasive, infringing, discriminatory,
        defamatory or fraudulent purpose (including phishing, creating a pyramid
        scheme, or mirroring a website);
  -   violate the privacy of any third party (including obtaining, posting, or
        using another person's personal information without consent or
        surveilling any individual in a manner that violates applicable law or
        internationally acceptable norms);
  -   violate or encourage the violation of any legal rights of others
        (including allowing or assisting others to infringe or misappropriate
        the [intellectual property
        rights](https://policies.google.com/terms/definitions#toc-terms-intellectual-property-rights)
        of others in violation of the [Digital Millennium Copyright
        Act](https://support.google.com/legal/answer/1120734)) or engage in or
        encourage any other illegal activity;
  -   intentionally distribute viruses, worms, Trojan horses, corrupted files,
        hoaxes, or other items of a destructive or deceptive nature;
  -   interfere with the use of TensorFlow Hub or the equipment used to
        provide TensorFlow Hub;
  -   disable, interfere with or circumvent any aspect of TensorFlow Hub;
  -   use TensorFlow Hub or any interfaces provided by TensorFlow Hub to
        access any other product or service in a manner that violates or
        circumvents the terms of service of such other product or service;
  -   engage in [high risk activities](#hra);
  -   engage in any purpose or in any manner involving PHI, if you are or
        become a Covered Entity or Business Associated, as those terms are
        defined in HIPAA.
  -   contravene any widely accepted principles of international law and human
        rights; or
   -   use TensorFlow Hub or any content to directly or indirectly create,
        train, or improve a substantially similar service to TensorFlow Hub
        (except to the extent such restrictions are expressly prohibited by
        applicable law).

b.  You agree not to reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, or resell any portion of
    TensorFlow Hub without our express written permission in advance.

### Third Party Terms

In some situations, third party terms may apply to your use of TensorFlow Hub.
For example: (a) you may be accessing content with its own terms or license
agreements; (b) you may download an application with its own terms of service
that integrates with TensorFlow Hub; or (c) content owned by us or third parties
(but featured in or linked from TensorFlow Hub) may provide different or
additional terms of service. If those additional terms conflict with these
TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms or provisions in the other Terms, the more
specific terms apply to the relevant content.

### Scraping

Scraping refers to extracting data from TensorFlow Hub via any process,
including an automated process such as a bot or webcrawler. You may only scrape
TensorFlow Hub for public, non-personal information for non-commercial research
and only if any publications resulting from such research are open access. You
may not scrape TensorFlow Hub for any other purposes, including spamming
purposes, or for the purposes of selling TensorFlow Hub users' personal
information for other uses, such as use by recruiters, headhunters, and job
boards.

### Excessive Bandwidth Use

If we determine in our sole discretion that the bandwidth usage of your Google
Account in connection with your use of TensorFlow Hub is significantly excessive
in relation to other users, we reserve the right to suspend your Google Account
or throttle TensorFlow Hub services related to your Google Account until you can
reduce your bandwidth consumption.

## C. Content Rights and Obligations

### Responsibility for Your Content

You may create or upload content while using TensorFlow Hub in compliance with
the Terms. Any content that you upload, submit, store, send, or receive through
TensorFlow Hub (your content) is subject to the Universal Terms, including the
license in the "[License](https://policies.google.com/terms#license)" section.
In addition, you are solely responsible for the contents of, and for any harm
resulting from, any of your content that you post, upload, link to or otherwise
make available via TensorFlow Hub, regardless of the form of your content. We
are not responsible for any public display or misuse of your content.

### TensorFlow Hub May Remove Content

We do not pre-screen user-generated content on TensorFlow Hub, but Google
reserves the right (though not the obligation) to refuse or remove any
user-generated content that, in our sole discretion, violates the Terms or any
other applicable terms or policies.

### License Grant to Us

In addition to the "[License](https://policies.google.com/terms#license)"
section of the Universal Terms, you grant to Google and our affiliates,
subcontractors, and assignees the right to store, organize, and display your
content, and make incidental copies as necessary to provide TensorFlow Hub to
users, including the right to: (i) copy your content to our database and make
backups; (ii) display your content to you and other users; (iii) organize your
content into a search index or otherwise analyze it on our servers; and (iv)
share it with other users.

### License Grant to Other Users

In addition to the "License" section of the Universal Terms, you understand and
agree that:

a.  Any content you post publicly (including issues, comments, and contributions
    to other users' repositories) may be viewed by other users.

b.  By allowing content you control to be viewed by other users, you agree to
    allow other users to view and \"fork\" such content (this means that others
    may make their own copies of your content).

c.  If you set your content to be viewed publicly, unless you explicitly state
    otherwise clearly in such content, you grant each user of TensorFlow Hub the
    following "MIT license" to such content:

    "Copyright © <year> <copyright holders>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
    of this software and associated documentation files (the \"Software\"), to
    deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
    rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
    sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
    furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED \"AS IS\", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
    IN THE SOFTWARE."

### Contributions Under a Contribution License

Whenever you make a contribution to other user content that is subject to a
clear contribution license, you license your contribution to such content under
the same terms, and you agree that you have the right to license your
contribution under those terms.

### Moral Rights

You waive any moral rights that would prevent us from reasonably exercising the
rights granted to us in the Terms. To the extent these TensorFlow Additional
Terms or the other Terms are not enforceable by applicable law, you grant us the
rights we need to use your content without attribution and to make reasonable
adaptations of your content as necessary to provide TensorFlow Hub.

### Use of Your Content

Our use of your content is governed by the Terms, including the following
sections of the Universal Terms: (a) "[Permission to use your
content](https://policies.google.com/terms#toc-permission)"; (b)
"[License](https://policies.google.com/terms#license)"; and (c) "[Your
content](https://policies.google.com/terms#your-content-in-services)". In
addition to the Terms, you also consent to us sharing information related to
your use of content on TensorFlow Hub with the provider of such content or
related to support for usage of such content, in each case in accordance with
the Terms and the Privacy Policy.

### Support for Content

We are not responsible or liable for any technical support to any user for any
content including any security updates or patches provided by you or other users
(even if such updates or patches may appear in our content).

## D. Intellectual Property

Terms related to intellectual property rights (including ownership rights, your
use of our trademarks and logos, and notices related to copyright infringement)
are set forth in the Universal Terms, including in the sections called: (a)
"Content in Google Services" (which describes the intellectual property rights
to the content you find in our services, whether that content belongs to you,
Google, or others); (b) "[What we expect from
you](https://policies.google.com/terms#toc-what-we-expect)" (which says we
retain any intellectual property rights we have in the services, including
TensorFlow Hub); (c) "[License](https://policies.google.com/terms#license)"
(which states, among other things, that you retain any intellectual property
rights that you have in your content), along with the License section of these
TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms; (d) "[Google
content](https://policies.google.com/terms#google-content)" (which states that
if you want to use our branding or logos, including those for TensorFlow Hub,
please see the Google Brand Permissions page); and (e) "[Your
content](https://policies.google.com/terms#your-content-in-services)" (which
describes what to do if you think someone is infringing your intellectual
property rights, [how to send us a notice of
infringement](https://support.google.com/legal/answer/3110420), and how to
access our [Copyright Help
Center](https://support.google.com/legal/topic/4558877)).

## E. General Terms

In addition to those included in the Universal Terms, the following apply to
your use of TensorFlow Hub:

### Publicity

You are permitted to state publicly that you are a user of TensorFlow Hub,
consistent with the [Google Brand
Permissions](https://www.google.com/permissions) page. If you want to display
TensorFlow Hub branding or logos in connection with your use of TensorFlow Hub
or in any other manner, you must obtain written permission from us through the
process specified on the [Google Brand
Permissions](https://www.google.com/permissions) page. We may include your name,
branding and logos in a list of our users either online or in promotional
materials. We may also verbally reference you as a user of TensorFlow Hub and of
any content used by you. Any use of a party's branding or logos will inure to
the benefit of the party holding [intellectual property
rights](https://policies.google.com/terms/definitions#toc-terms-intellectual-property-rights)
in and to such branding or logos. A party may revoke the other party's right to
use its branding and logos under these TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms by
providing written notice to the other party and a reasonable period to stop the
use.

### Additional Warranty Disclaimer

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, WE AND OUR SUPPLIERS DO NOT
MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND RELATED TO TENSORFLOW HUB OR ANY CONTENT, WHETHER
EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. WE AND OUR
SUPPLIERS ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE FOR THE DELETION OF OR FAILURE TO STORE
ANY CONTENT AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS MAINTAINED OR TRANSMITTED THROUGH USE OF
TENSORFLOW HUB. YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR SECURING AND BACKING UP ANY
CONTENT YOU UPLOAD TO OR ACCESS VIA TENSORFLOW HUB. WE AND OUR SUPPLIERS AND
LICENSEES DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE OPERATION OF TENSORFLOW HUB OR ANY CONTENT
WILL BE ERROR-FREE, MALWARE- FREE, OR UNINTERRUPTED. TENSORFLOW HUB AND ALL
CONTENT ARE NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED, OR INTENDED FOR HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES.

### Notices

All legal notices to us must be emailed to Our Legal Department at
<legal-notices@google.com>. You agree that we may use the email address that you
provide us for any notice to you. Notice will be treated as given on receipt, as
verified by written or automated receipt or by electronic log (as applicable).

### Government Users

If you are using TensorFlow Hub on behalf of a government entity, the following
terms apply:

a.  If you are a city, county or state government entity in the United States or
    European Union, the section in the Universal Terms regarding governing law
    and venue will not apply.

b.  If you are a U.S. federal government entity, then the section in the
    Universal Terms regarding governing law and venue is replaced with the
    following, solely to the extent permitted by U.S. federal law:

    "ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE "TERMS" (AS DEFINED IN THESE
    TENSORFLOW HUB ADDITIONAL TERMS) OR THE TENSORFLOW HUB SERVICE WILL BE
    GOVERNED BY AND INTERPRETED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE
    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, EXCLUDING ITS CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES. SOLELY TO
    THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY FEDERAL LAW: (I) THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
    (EXCLUDING CALIFORNIA'S CONFLICT OF LAWS RULES) WILL APPLY IN THE ABSENCE OF
    APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAW; AND (II) ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO
    THE "TERMS" (AS DEFINED IN THESE TENSORFLOW HUB ADDITIONAL TERMS) OR THE
    TENSORFLOW HUB SERVICE WILL BE LITIGATED EXCLUSIVELY IN THE FEDERAL COURTS
    OF SANTA CLARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, AND, THE PARTIES CONSENT TO PERSONAL
    JURISDICTION IN, AND THE EXCLUSIVE VENUE OF, THE COURTS IN SANTA CLARA
    COUNTY, CALIFORNIA."

c.  If You are any entity or person not stated in (a) or (b) above, then the
    section in the Universal Terms regarding governing law and venue applies.

### U.S. Federal Agency Users

TensorFlow Hub and our content were developed solely at private expense and are
commercial computer software and related documentation within the meaning of the
applicable Federal Acquisition Regulation and agency supplements.

### Term and Termination

The Terms will continue to apply to your use of TensorFlow Hub until terminated
by either you or Google as set forth in the Universal Terms and this paragraph.
If you want to terminate these TensorFlow Hub Additional Terms, you may do so by
deleting your Google Account and ceasing to use and access TensorFlow Hub.

### Survival

The following provisions in the Terms will survive termination: conduct
restrictions (including those set forth in Section B.3), content rights and
obligations (including those set forth in Section C), any obligation you have to
indemnify us, any limitations on our liability, any terms regarding ownership or
intellectual property rights (including those in Section D), terms regarding
disputes between us, these General Terms in Section E, and any other provisions
that, by their nature, should survive termination of these TensorFlow Additional
Terms.
